vm autoregistration doc (#8372)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/examples/virtual-machines/autoregistration/index.md

---

> title: Automated WorkloadEntry creation with WorkloadGroup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Automated Workload Entry Creation [experimental]
```

description: Learn how to use the experimental automated VM registration feature.
  Istio mesh.
weight: 20
keywords:
- kubernetes
- vms
- virtual-machines
owner: istio/wg-environments-maintainers
test: no
---

{{< warning >}}

> This feature is experimental in Istio 1.8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is actively in [development](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/FEATURE-LIFECYCLE.md) and is
considered `pre-alpha`.
```

{{< /warning >}}

> This example provides instructions to integrate a virtual machine, or a bare metal host into a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.8 introduces a new configuration resource, [Workload Group](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-group/), that can be used to automate
the creation of [Workload Entries](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/).
This example shows how to use a `WorkloadGroup` to integrate a virtual machine, or a bare metal host into a
```

> single network Istio mesh deployed on Kubernetes without manual WorkloadEntry creation. This approach requires L3 connectivity

Reviewer: Use back-ticks here and every other resource kind.
```suggestion
single network Istio mesh deployed on Kubernetes without manual `WorkloadEntry` creation. This approach requires L3 connectivity
```

- Virtual machines must have L3 IP connectivity to the endpoints in the mesh.
  This typically requires a VPC or a VPN, as well as a container network that
  provides direct (without NAT or firewall deny) routing to the endpoints. The
  machine is not required to have access to the cluster IP addresses assigned by
  Kubernetes.

- Installation must be completed using [virtual machine installation](/docs/setup/install/virtual-machine) instructions.

## Prepare the guide environment

Set the environment variables `VM_NAMESPACE` and `SERVICE_ACCOUNT` (use the same values as during the installation guide):

{{< text bash >}}
$ VM_NAMESPACE="<the name of your service namespace>"
$ SERVICE_ACCOUNT="<name of the Kubernetes service account you want to use for your VM>"
{{< /text >}}

### Running services on the virtual machine

1. Setup an HTTP server on the virtual machine to serve HTTP traffic on port 8080:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8080
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    You may have to open firewalls to be able to access the 8080 port on your virtual machine
    {{< /warning >}}

> 1. Add an associated Service to the mesh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add an associated Service to the mesh:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl -n "${VM_NAMESPACE}" apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: auto-cloud-vm
      labels:
        app: auto-cloud-vm
    spec:
      ports:
      - port: 8080
        name: http-vm
        targetPort: 8080
      selector:
        app: auto-cloud-vm
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure VM for Auto-Registration

> 1. Create the auto-registration group.

Reviewer 2: the mainline docs should probably just be modified to use this. we can incrementally change it though I think

    WorkloadGroup provides a template to automatically create a WorkloadEntry for each connected VM instance.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl -n "${VM_NAMESPACE}" apply -f -
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: WorkloadGroup
    metadata:
      name: auto-cloud-vm
    spec:
      template:
        serviceAccount: vm-sa
        ports:
          http-vm: 8080
        labels:
          app: auto-cloud-vm
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. The proxy must provide enough the name and namespace to find the WorkloadGroup on connection.

    While logged on to the Virtual Machine:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ sudo echo "ISTIO_NAMESPACE=${VM_NAMESPACE}" >> /var/lib/istio/envoy/sidecar.env
    $ sudo echo "ISTIO_META_AUTO_REGISTER_GROUP=auto-cloud-vm" >> /var/lib/istio/envoy/sidecar.env
    {{< /text >}}

1. Reconnect with new configuration.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ sudo systemctl restart istio
    {{< /text >}}

## Verify

> 1. If successful, a new WorkloadEntry should exist in your `${VM_NAMESPACE}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If successful, a new WorkloadEntry should exist in your `${VM_NAMESPACE}`:
```

---
title: Automated Workload Entry Creation [experimental]
description: Learn how to use the experimental automated VM registration feature.
  Istio mesh.

> weight: 20

Reviewer: This value controls where in the list of documents under the same folder this one should be. The other docs are currently, 20, 30, and 60. If you want it to be first, set `weight: 10` or last `weight: 70`
```suggestion
weight: 70
```

considered `pre-alpha`.
{{< /warning >}}

Istio 1.8 introduces a new configuration resource, [Workload Group](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-group/), that can be used to automate
the creation of [Workload Entries](/docs/reference/config/networking/workload-entry/).
This example shows how to use a `WorkloadGroup` to integrate a virtual machine, or a bare metal host into a
single network Istio mesh deployed on Kubernetes without manual `WorkloadEntry` creation. This approach requires L3 connectivity
between the virtual machine, and the Kubernetes cluster.

## Prerequisites

- One or more Kubernetes clusters with versions: {{< supported_kubernetes_versions >}}.

- Virtual machines must have L3 IP connectivity to the endpoints in the mesh.
  This typically requires a VPC or a VPN, as well as a container network that
  provides direct (without NAT or firewall deny) routing to the endpoints. The
  machine is not required to have access to the cluster IP addresses assigned by
  Kubernetes.

- Installation must be completed using [virtual machine installation](/docs/setup/install/virtual-machine) instructions.

## Prepare the guide environment

> Set the environment variables `VM_NAMESPACE` and `SERVICE_ACCOUNT` (use the same values as during the installation guide):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the environment variables `VM_NAMESPACE` and `SERVICE_ACCOUNT` (use the same values that you used during installation):
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ VM_NAMESPACE="<the name of your service namespace>"
$ SERVICE_ACCOUNT="<name of the Kubernetes service account you want to use for your VM>"
{{< /text >}}

### Running services on the virtual machine

1. Setup an HTTP server on the virtual machine to serve HTTP traffic on port 8080:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8080
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< warning >}}
    You may have to open firewalls to be able to access the 8080 port on your virtual machine
    {{< /warning >}}

1. Add an associated Service to the mesh:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl -n "${VM_NAMESPACE}" apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: auto-cloud-vm
      labels:
        app: auto-cloud-vm
    spec:
      ports:
      - port: 8080
        name: http
        targetPort: 8080
      selector:
        app: auto-cloud-vm
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

## Configure VM for Auto-Registration

1. Create the auto-registration group.

>     `WorkloadGroup`provides a template to automatically create a `WorkloadEntry`for each connected VM instance.

Reviewer: FIx here and several other places: https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/8372#issuecomment-718949713
```suggestion
    `WorkloadGroup`provides a template to automatically create a `WorkloadEntry` for each connected VM instance.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF | kubectl -n "${VM_NAMESPACE}" apply -f -
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: WorkloadGroup
    metadata:
      name: auto-cloud-vm
    spec:
      template:
        serviceAccount: vm-sa
        labels:
          app: auto-cloud-vm
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. The proxy must provide enough the name and namespace to find the `WorkloadGroup`on connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The proxy must be provided with the name and namespace to find the `WorkloadGroup`on connection.
```

1. Send a request from the `sleep` service on the pod to the virtual machine:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec -it sleep-88ddbcfdd-rm42k -c sleep -- curl auto-cloud-vm.${VM_NAMESPACE}.svc.cluster.local:8080
    {{< /text >}}

    You will see output similar to this:

    {{< text html >}}
    <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 3.2 Final//EN"><html>
    <title>Directory listing for /</title>
    <body>
    <h2>Directory listing for /</h2>
    <hr>
    <ul>
    <li><a href=".bashrc">.bashrc</a></li>
    <li><a href=".ssh/">.ssh/</a></li>
    ...
    </body>
    {{< /text >}}

**Congratulations!** You successfully configured a service running in a pod within the cluster to
send traffic to a service running on a VM outside of the cluster and tested that
the configuration worked. Adding additional VMs will only require setting up the proxy, including configuring it with
the `WorkloadGroup` and Namespace.

## Cleanup

At this point, you can remove the virtual machine resources from the Kubernetes cluster in the `<vm-namespace>` namespace.
Removing the `WorkloadGroup` will not delete associated `WorkloadEntry` resources. Even without deleting the `WorkloadGroup`,

> simply shutdown the `istio` service on the VM, or tear down the VM entirely. After a short grace period, the `WorkloadEntry`will be cleaned up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simply shutdown the `istio` service on the VM, or tear down the VM entirely. After a short grace period, the `WorkloadEntry` will be cleaned up
```
